docs: add docs for /clusterStatus endpoint (#7339)
confluentinc/ksql: docs/developer-guide/ksqldb-rest-api/cluster-status-endpoint.md

---
layout: page
title: Get the Status of the Servers in a ksqlDB Cluster 
tagline: clusterStatus endpoint
description: The `/clusterStatus` resource gives you the status of all servers in a ksqlDB cluster
keywords: ksqldb, server, status, cluster
---

The `/clusterStatus` resource gives you information about the status of all
ksqlDB servers in a ksqlDB cluster, which can be useful for troubleshooting. 
Enable this endpoint by setting [`ksql.heartbeat.enable`](../../reference/server-configuration.md#ksqlheartbeatenable) 
to `true`. Optionally, you can also set [`ksql.lag.reporting.enable`](../../reference/server-configuration.md#ksqllagreportingenable) 
to `true` to have your ksqlDB servers report state store lag, which will 
then also be returned with the response from the `/clusterStatus` endpoint.

!!! note
      ksqlDB servers in a cluster discover each other through persistent queries.
      If you have no persistent queries running, then the `/clusterStatus` endpoint

>       will only contain info for the particular server that was queried, rather than

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      contains only info for the particular server that was queried, rather than
```
